# ChatMMC

This project contains source code and supporting files for a serverless application that you can deploy with the SAM CLI. It includes the following files and folders.

- slack - Code for the application's Lambda function written in TypeScript.
- template.yaml - A template that defines the application's AWS resources.

The application uses several AWS resources, including Lambda functions and an API Gateway API. These resources are defined in the `template.yaml` file in this project. You can update the template to add AWS resources through the same deployment process that updates your application code.

## Deploy the sample application

The Serverless Application Model Command Line Interface (SAM CLI) is an extension of the AWS CLI that adds functionality for building and testing Lambda applications. It uses Docker to run your functions in an Amazon Linux environment that matches Lambda. It can also emulate your application's build environment and API.

To use the SAM CLI, you need the following tools.

- SAM CLI - [Install the SAM CLI](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/serverless-application-model/latest/developerguide/serverless-sam-cli-install.html)
- Node.js - [Install Node.js 18](https://nodejs.org/en/), including the NPM package management tool.
- Docker Desktop or Rancher Desktop installed

To build and deploy your application to AWS for the first time, run the following in your shell:

```bash
sam build
sam deploy --guided
```

The first command will build the source of your application. The second command will package and deploy your application to AWS, with a series of prompts.

You can find your API Gateway Endpoint URL in the output values displayed after deployment.

Set your Prod environment variables on the new function [in AWS](https://console.aws.amazon.com/lambda/home#/functions), and then configure Slack to point to the Endpoint URL in the Slack API settings for both the Interactivity & Shortcuts > Request URL (save changes), and then the Event Subscriptions > Request URL (should auto-verify).

## Use the SAM CLI to build and test locally

- Prerequisite: [Install ngrok](https://ngrok.com/docs/getting-started/#step-2-install-the-ngrok-agent) so you can generate a public URL to configure in Slack

Build your application with the `sam build` command.

```bash
chatmmc$ sam build
```

The SAM CLI can emulate your application's API. Use the `sam local start-api` to run the API locally on port 3000, and include your local env vars to point to the correct Slack bot. You need to configure your local environment variables in a file named `env.json` at the root of the project, with the format:

```{
{
  "ChatMmcFunction": {
      "NODE_ENV": "development",
      "SLACK_BOT_TOKEN": "<pulled from Slack configuration>",
      "SLACK_SIGNING_SECRET": "<also from Slack configuration>"
  }
}
```

Once you have your env vars set, start the bot locally with the following command:

```bash
chatmmc$ sam local start-api -n env.json
```

In another command prompt, run ngrok to get a public URL for your local bot:

```bash
ngrok http 3000
```

Copy the ngrok.io URL that it creates, add **/slack/events** to the end of it, and paste that in the Slack API settings for both the Interactivity & Shortcuts > Request URL (save changes), and then the Event Subscriptions > Request URL (should auto-verify).

After saving changes, to see them reflected in your local bot, cancel the local API in the terminal with ctrl-C and run `sam build`, then `sam local start-api -n env.json` again. You do not need to restart ngrok or reconfigure the Slack URL between every change; just once per dev session.

```yaml
Events:
  ChatMmc:
    Type: Api
    Properties:
      Path: /slack/events
      Method: post
```



## Fetch, tail, and filter Lambda function logs

To simplify troubleshooting, SAM CLI has a command called `sam logs`. `sam logs` lets you fetch logs generated by your deployed Lambda function from the command line. In addition to printing the logs on the terminal, this command has several nifty features to help you quickly find the bug.

`NOTE`: This command works for all AWS Lambda functions; not just the ones you deploy using SAM.

```bash
chatmmc$ sam logs -n ChatMmcFunction --stack-name chatmmc --tail
```

You can find more information and examples about filtering Lambda function logs in the [SAM CLI Documentation](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/serverless-application-model/latest/developerguide/serverless-sam-cli-logging.html).

## Unit tests

Tests are defined in the `slack/tests` folder in this project. Use NPM to install the [Jest test framework](https://jestjs.io/) and run unit tests.

```bash
chatmmc$ cd slack
slack$ npm install
slack$ npm test
```

## Cleanup

To delete the sample application that you created, use the AWS CLI. Assuming you used your project name for the stack name, you can run the following:

```bash
aws cloudformation delete-stack --stack-name chatmmc
```

## Resources

See the [AWS SAM developer guide](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/serverless-application-model/latest/developerguide/what-is-sam.html) for an introduction to SAM specification, the SAM CLI, and serverless application concepts.

Next, you can use AWS Serverless Application Repository to deploy ready to use Apps that go beyond hello world samples and learn how authors developed their applications: [AWS Serverless Application Repository main page](https://aws.amazon.com/serverless/serverlessrepo/)
